# spec-tree

## Overview

This package contains tools to manage a large set of RPM .spec files, tailored
for the Mageia Linux distribution.  The scripts allow you to check out all the
possible spec files in order to perform large-scale refactoring or changes, to
search all the spec files, or to perform analysis on them.

The spec files are all found within directories under a top directory, one per
package. For example:

    TOP/apackage/apackage.spec
    TOP/coolprogram/coolprogram.spec
    TOP/greatcode/greatcode.spec

This is what you would get when using `mgarepo co -s X` for each packages. Some
scripts also support the standard format which looks like:

    TOP/apackage/SPECS/apackage.spec
    TOP/coolprogram/SPECS/coolprogram.spec
    TOP/greatcode/SPECS/greatcode.spec

## Usage

Populate a new, empty TOP directory like this:

    mkdir TOP
    cd TOP
    checkout-all-specs

To make some of the other scripts easier to use, set the `SPEC_TREE`
environment variable to this path. If you don't do this, you'll need to change
to this directory for most of the scripts to work.

To update the spec files later, run this:

    cd TOP
    update-all-specs

This will delete obsolete directories, checkout new ones and update existing
ones. To skip the delete and checkout new steps, use the `--update-only`
option.

The spec files are checked out anonymously, for speed, which means that you
can't check in a change to a spec file directly. Instead, use the
`commit-from-anon-repo` script like this:

    commit-from-anon-repo -m 'The commit message' TOP/apackage/apackage.spec TOP/greatcode/greatcode.spec

This script operates by temporarily changing the repo URL from an anonymous one
to a SSH one, checking in the file, then changing the URL back. If something
goes wrong during the check-in, this might leave the repo with the SSH URL
which you should manually fix for speed and consistency. The arguments are
designed to come straight from a `grep -l â€¦` command, and everything in the
containing repo will be submitted, not just the given file alone.

The `list-unclean-repo` script goes through all checked-out directories and
lists those that have local changes that haven't yet been checked-in:

    cd TOP
    list-unclean-repo

The `findspec` script search through all the .spec files in the tree using
a perl-style regex. Command-line arguments are passed through to grep so `-l`
can be used to list matching files, for example.

`match-spec-maintainer` lists all packages whose spec files match a perl-style
regular expression and lists them along with their maintainer's user ID:

    cd TOP
    match-spec-maintainer 'python2|py2'

`spec-rpm-mismatch` generates a report of packages that have no matching source
RPM available at the specific version. By default, it matches against Cauldron
and hard-codes one Mageia mirror site but it supports a number of options to
change that (run it with `-h` to see them). Run it like this:

    cd TOP
    spec-rpm-mismatch >/tmp/report.html 2>/tmp/errors.log

